{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 arial;}{\f4\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt serif};}{\f6\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mangal;}{\f9\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Mangal;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Default;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\*\cs16\snext16\cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255 Visited Internet Link;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext18\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af7\dbch\af8\afs28\loch\f2\fs28 Heading;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s19\sbasedon18\snext19\sb0\sa120\dbch\af9 List;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af9\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\noline\dbch\af9 Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2013\mo1\dy26\hr13\min8}{\revtim\yr2013\mo1\dy27\hr15\min13}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment OpenOffice.org}{\vern3410}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
Garrett Cuillier}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
CSE488 Karant}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
27 January 2013}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\qc\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\ul\ulc0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
An Analysis on the Ethical Dilemmas and Reason Behind Data Theft}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab Why drives a person to steal important data from the company at which they are currently employed? Are there any justifications that could lead to a better understanding of a \u8220\'1cCyber-Mole's\u8221\'1d actions? These questions are being asked more frequently as it becomes evident that the data theft has become a trillion dollar industry. In 2009 a study was published that explained how this trend has amassed over a trillion dollars in damages to affected companies. The study illustrated how economic woes have led to a decrease in security for large corporations that leaves them open for intricate attacks aimed at stealing a companies secrets. These techniques. Such as \u8220\'1cphishing\u8221\'1d or \u8220\'1cwhaling\u8221\'1d are targeting upper management in the hopes of breaking into a companies infrastructure to steal data. The 2009 study alludes to organizations, or \u8220\'1ccyber mafias\u8221\'1d, as the main culprit behind many of these attacks. In addition to this shocking revelation, companies have also seen dramatic increases in data theft from within the company itself by its own employees. How could someone justify stealing information from their own employer and selling it on the black market? These actions go directly against standards found in the IEEE, and ACM guidelines and in most places is considered a punishable crime. There are many reasons why data theft is considered wrong by most moral and ethical standards, but there are some systems that believe what they are doing is right and necessary.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab Various justifications could be made for actions described in the study provided. The most obvious being the person believed in the egoist ethical system. This system describes a believe that actions should be done in such a way that they maximize the happiness for the person committing the action (Shaver, egoism 2). This isn't the only system, though, that can find justifications for what most country depict as a crime. A believe in the situational ethics system can also find reasoning behind stealing millions of dollars in information from various companies. Situational ethics state that the idea of right and wrong change depending of the situation and that the decision should be based on which would best serve love (situational par 1). This system most likely gained popularity with the sudden economic downturn seen in 2008 worldwide and people were struggling to support their families.  One could also argue that ethical nihilism has a niche in the \u8220\'1cCyber-Mole\u8221\'1d market. Nihilism explains how decisions should be made to give advantages to its adherents (nihilism par 1). People employed in foreign countries could be passing vital data back to their homeland. In this case this not only seems \u8220\'1cright\u8221\'1d could also be considered a duty to some governments. Either way, the act in and of itself goes against the standards set forth by the IEEE and ACM and is considered a crime in the United States. Almost all cases of data theft fall under the category of either privacy or intellectual property depending on what was stolen. Any one of these events causes damage to the company effected and is considered illegal in most modern countries.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab The most prominent ethical system that people think when they hear the phrase \u8220\'1cdata theft\u8221\'1d would be egoism. Under egoism a person makes decisions that favor their own well being of the needs of anyone else. Seeing how the theft of information has become a trillion dollar industry, its understandable to think some people are doing it just for the money. The people who benefit the most in this case are the people who are stealing and selling the information. Individuals made millions of dollars by stealing confidential information from the company that they are currently working at. It became easier as businesses made budget cuts to important infrastructure which decreased the effectiveness of the security systems in place. People who were demoted, or threatened with layoffs from the recession would especially be tempted to attack their company in revenge. Organized crime especially took advantage of these vulnerable systems and people, escalating the situation to astronomical heights. Stolen data has become a form of international currency similar to that of gold, diamonds, or oil (study, line 8). An example is the numerous attacks seen on facebook and other social media sites. Hackers are breaking into the system to gather user information to sell to third parties. New techniques such as \u8220\'1cwhaling\u8221\'1d are targeting CEO's and other upper management of large corporations. These sophisticated techniques and system attacks give credence to the belief that these people are organized and are willing to do whatever it takes to get the information they want.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab An argument for situational ethics could also be made as justification for the actions of a cyber thief. The year 2008 saw a tremendous downturn in the worldwide economy. At the time, more and more people were becoming desperate as the average household income reached new lows. By definition, as the situation changes then a person's ethics will change to suit the situation. That is why there was an increase in data theft seen in 2008 after the economic meltdown. People would do whatever is necessary to meet the basic needs in life for themselves and their family. In one of Joseph Fletcher's four examples of situational ethics, he illustrates how a terminal patient chose to die before his insurance expired so that his family would receive an insurance payment (situational par 5). If a person could make this decision that would cost them their lives then it could easily be determined that someone would steal form a company to feed their family. In some cases the act of data theft would be construed as necessary to meet a persons basic survival needs but in many more case it is most likely to keep a lifestyle. It is those people that shouldn't use the situational ethics system as justification for their actions. They are only stealing so that they can keep all of their luxuries. Either way the decrease in household income led to a rise in the act of data theft that could be contributed to the situational ethical system.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab A less obvious approach to this problem is using ethical nihilism as a \u8220\'1ccyber-mole's\u8221\'1d justification. Hostile countries sees a weekend economy as vulnerable and decide to attack. They send out spies to other countries to steal information from defense contractors and other important companies then send all the findings back to the homeland. It is becoming increasingly apparent that this is how wars will be fought in the future. A good example if the Iranian nuclear plant that was infected by a virus of unknown origins that delayed production by months. China is currently training cyber soldiers who specialize in breaking systems. With the weakened state of security due to the economic downturn experienced in 2008 its understandable to think that hostile foreign nations might take advantage of the situation. These countries don't see their actions as right or wrong but necessary to gain an advantage. Some may say that the people who are actually performing the act are only doing for their own self interests but it is equally apparent that other countries are behind some of these attacks.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab No matter which way you try to justify data theft, it clearly go against the policies set forth in the IEEE and ACM code of ethics. The IEE code of ethics states that its members that they must \u8220\'1c reject bribery in all its forms,\u8221\'1d and that they must \u8220\'1cavoid injuring others, their property, reputation, or employment by false or malicious actions,\u8221\'1d (IEEE num 4, 9). The act of stealing information for personal gain could be construed as bribery. Whether its money, a new job, or luxury items, it is still performing an act that could be detrimental to a companies success and receiving something in return. In the ethical rationales given above, only one of those doesn't involve money changing hands with the person performing the deed. Both egoism and situational ethics say that the person would be stealing for an advantage that they would not benefit from otherwise. Under nihilism though, a person would be stealing for the benefit of their country and not their direct livelihood. In this case the second code of conduct mentioned above is more applicable. The code describes a situation where the act of stealing data from a company somehow damages the well being of that company. If the information that is stolen is then used hurt that companies dealing then the act would be considered damaging to that company. The ACM code of conduct has similar rules. In section 1.5 it states that \u8220\'1c Copies of material should be made only with proper authorization\u8221\'1d (ACM sec 1.5). This rule clearly covers all forms of data theft in its entirety. Either way it is interpreted both the ACM and IEEE are against stealing information from any company.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab Is data theft considered an issue of privacy or intellectual property? I would say that this depends on the type of information that is being stolen. In the case of the facebook, and the playstation network attacks, where hackers were stealing confidential information from the companies on its users, it would be considered an issue of privacy since it isn't something the company developed. It is in the companies best interest and it's duty to protect its users from these types of targeted attacks. If the company didn't take every precaution to protect its user data then the company would most likely be considered liable. If, though, the attacker wasn't after user information but , for example, wanted to gain access to the governments new fighter jet schematics, then that would be a considered theft of intellectual property. The difference is that one of these is a product produced by the company and the other is information that is gathered by the company on its users.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
\tab In conclusion, many things could be argued over the ethics of data theft. Some would say the the thieves are only doing it for themselves and their own personal gain. Others would argue that the sudden economic downturn seen in 2008 led to a rise of desperate people who would do anything to support their household. Companies at this also downgraded their security in the form of budget cuts that left system open for infiltration by hostile nations. In my mind there is no single reason behind these actions. It is most likely a plethora of different ideals that drive people to perform these criminal acts. Both the IEEE and ACM are strongly against such actions and state as much in the code of ethics. Both of these state that the privacy of all user must be upheld and that programs owned by a company is considered intellectual property. Whether its a \u8220\'1ccyber-mole\u8221\'1d stealing from their own employer or a cyber mafia finding new ways to attack businesses, one thing is for certain, this is not something that will disappear over time. If anything this is the start of a new era where cyber security is a number one priority from both external and internal attackers.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\qc\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sl480\slmult1\qc\sb0\sa200{\scaps0\caps0\cf1\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f6
}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\qc\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\pagebb\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://plato.stanford.edu/cgi-bin/encyclopedia/archinfo.cgi?entry=egoism" }\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
http://plato.stanford.edu/cgi-bin/encyclopedia/archinfo.cgi?entry=egoism}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Situational_ethics" }\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Situational_ethics}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_nihilism" }\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24{\fldrslt \cf3\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_nihilism}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
 }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://blackboard.csusb.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-461813-dt-content-rid-6329177_1/courses/132cse48801/Course%20Documents%20IEEE%20Code%20of%20Ethics/ieee-code-of-ethics.pdf" }\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
http://blackboard.csusb.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-461813-dt-content-rid-6329177_1/courses/132cse48801/Course%20Documents%20IEEE%20Code%20of%20Ethics/ieee-code-of-ethics.pdf}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://blackboard.csusb.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-461812-dt-content-rid-6329175_1/courses/132cse48801/Course%20Documents%20ACM%20Code%20of%20Ethics/acm-code-of-ethics.pdf" }\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
http://blackboard.csusb.edu/bbcswebdav/pid-461812-dt-content-rid-6329175_1/courses/132cse48801/Course%20Documents%20ACM%20Code%20of%20Ethics/acm-code-of-ethics.pdf}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl480\slmult1\sb0\sa200{\hich\af4\dbch\af4\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang9\loch\f4
}
\par }